
start http://localhost:8080

Job Title

Data Analyst

Job Summary

We are looking for a detail-oriented Data Analyst to collect, clean, analyze, and interpret data to support business decision-making. The ideal candidate should have strong analytical skills, proficiency in SQL and Excel, and experience with data visualization tools such as Power BI or Tableau.

Key Responsibilities
Collect data from multiple sources such as databases, spreadsheets, and business systems.
Clean and validate data to ensure accuracy and consistency.
Write SQL queries to extract and analyse data.
Create dashboards and reports using Power BI or Tableau.
Analyse trends, patterns, and business performance.
Generate daily, weekly, and monthly reports.
Present findings and recommendations to stakeholders.
Work with different teams to understand business requirements.
Monitor key performance indicators (KPIs).
Identify opportunities to improve business processes using data.
Required Skills
Strong knowledge of SQL.
Advanced Microsoft Excel skills (Pivot Tables, VLOOKUP/XLOOKUP, INDEX-MATCH, Charts).
Experience with Power BI or Tableau.
Basic knowledge of Python (Pandas, NumPy) is preferred.
Understanding of statistics and data analysis techniques.
Good problem-solving and analytical thinking.
Strong communication and presentation skills.
Attention to detail.
Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, Data Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering, or a related field.
Relevant internships or academic projects are an advantage.
Preferred Skills
Experience with relational databases such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.
Knowledge of data cleaning and preprocessing.
Basic understanding of machine learning concepts.
Familiarity with Git or version control systems.
Responsibilities in a Typical Day
Extract data using SQL.
Clean and prepare datasets.
Create dashboards and visual reports.
Analyse business performance.
Attend meetings with stakeholders.
Share insights and recommend improvements.
Key Tools
SQL
Microsoft Excel
Power BI
Tableau
Python
MySQL/PostgreSQL
Jupyter Notebook
Career Level
Entry-Level / Associate Data Analyst (0–2 years)
Mid-Level Data Analyst (2–5 years)
Senior Data Analyst (5+ years)